instruqt-with-terraform/01-setup-our-environment/assignment.md, before:

---
slug: setup-our-environment
id: yqp2fjyit08o
type: challenge
title: "\U0001F3E1 Getting Started"
teaser: Log onto your workstation and AWS account.
notes:
- type: text
  contents: |
    Get familiar with your training environment and sandbox AWS account.
tabs:
- title: Text Editor
  type: code
  hostname: workstation
  path: /root/hashicat-aws
- title: Shell
  type: terminal
  hostname: workstation
- title: AWS Account
  type: service
  hostname: cloud-client
  path: /
  port: 80
difficulty: basic
timelimit: 3600
---
Welcome to your training environment! We have created a brand new AWS account and workstation that you'll use for the duration of this track.

Let's take a moment to get familiar with the Instruqt user interface. On the left side of the screen you'll see three different tabs.

The first tab is your text editor. Use this tab for any of the exercises that require editing files.

The second tab contains a shell prompt where you'll run command line tools.

The third tab contains credentials for your AWS account. Keep these private, as they grant administrator access to your training AWS account.

Click on the AWS Account tab now. You'll see a link underneath **Account ID**. Click on this link to open a new tab containing the AWS console login page.

Copy and paste your training Username and Password into the login page.

Return to Instruqt after you've logged onto the AWS console.

Congratulations, you completed the first challenge!

Click on the **Next** button below to continue.

Commit message:

Add link to source code for terraform track.

instruqt-with-terraform/01-setup-our-environment/assignment.md, after:

---
slug: setup-our-environment
id: yqp2fjyit08o
type: challenge
title: "\U0001F3E1 Getting Started"
teaser: Log onto your workstation and AWS account.
notes:
- type: text
  contents: |
    Get familiar with your training environment and sandbox AWS account.
tabs:
- title: Text Editor
  type: code
  hostname: workstation
  path: /root/hashicat-aws
- title: Shell
  type: terminal
  hostname: workstation
- title: AWS Account
  type: service
  hostname: cloud-client
  path: /
  port: 80
difficulty: basic
timelimit: 3600
---
**Want the source code for this track?** Head over to our templates repo:

https://github.com/instruqt/templates/master/tree/instruqt-with-terraform

<hr>

Welcome to your training environment! We have created a brand new AWS account and workstation that you'll use for the duration of this track.

Let's take a moment to get familiar with the Instruqt user interface. On the left side of the screen you'll see three different tabs.

The first tab is your text editor. Use this tab for any of the exercises that require editing files.

The second tab contains a shell prompt where you'll run command line tools.

The third tab contains credentials for your AWS account. Keep these private, as they grant administrator access to your training AWS account.

Click on the AWS Account tab now. You'll see a link underneath **Account ID**. Click on this link to open a new tab containing the AWS console login page.

Copy and paste your training Username and Password into the login page.

Return to Instruqt after you've logged onto the AWS console.

Congratulations, you completed the first challenge!

Click on the **Next** button below to continue.
